---
title: Consumer Guidance Overview
keywords: engage about
tags: [overview]
sidebar: overview_sidebar
permalink: consumer_guidance_overview.html
summary: A overview of the guidance section for consumers
---


## Overview



## Technical Stuff


## Pointer Identity

Once persisted within the NRL there are up to two ways to refer to a specific Pointer instance. Both are identifiers that are stored on the Pointer itself, but the master identifier is optional and is specified by the Provider.

- Logical identifier – This identifier is assigned by the NRL service when it persists a Pointer. It uniquely identifies that Pointer within the NRL service. The NRL service instance is the namespace for a given Pointer’s Logical identifier. 

- Master identifier – This also uniquely identifies the Pointer within the boundary of the NRL service. However, unlike the logical identifier, the master identifier is optional and is under the control of the Provider. For more details, see the [Master Identifier](#master-identifier) and [Uniqueness](#uniqueness) sections below.

### Logical Identifier

The logical identifier (ID) is generated by the NRL during the creation of a new Pointer. It is unique across all Pointers on the NRL service that created the Pointer. If the Pointer were ever to be migrated to a different NRL service instance then it is possible that its ID might need to change to avoid clashes with Pointers on the target NRL service.

The format of the ID is under the control of the NRL service. Clients should treat the id as an opaque identifier. In other words, the client should not make assumptions about the structure of the ID.

### Master Identifier

The master identifier is an optional identifier on the Pointer. It is under the control of the Provider. Guidance on the use of a unique master identifier value:

- Once a pointer with a master identifier value has been created, that same master identifier value must not be re-used with another pointer.
- 'Superseding' requires a new master identifier value. If a pointer is superseded, the new Pointer that replaces it must have a new, unique master identifier value.
- Once a pointer with a master identifier is deleted, the master identifier value used in that pointer cannot be used again on the NRL.
